MudOS is an enhanced LPmud 3.x (native mode only).
 
This is the source (src) directory from the MudOS 0.9.x distribution.
 
Intermediate (beta) releases of MudOS (those with four components in the 
version number e.g. 0.9.16.18) are typically released without installation 
instructions, usage instructions, documentation, or other supporting 
material (since the size of this other material is fairly large).  Releases 
of MudOS with version numbers having three components (e.g. 0.9.17) will 
usually be released as a combined source/documentation package (e.g. 
MudOS_0.9.20.tar.Z will be the next such release as of this time).
 
The beta releases are intended for those who are already familiar with 
installing and running MudOS.  Typically, only those interested in testing 
for bugs or in being on the bleeding edge need install the beta releases. 
However, in some cases the beta releases may fix serious bugs in the 
previous non-beta release.  In these cases, obtain the last non-beta 
release and replace its ./src subdirectory with the contents of latest beta 
release (which is just an upgraded ./src subdirectory).  Read the ChangeLog 
file in the same directory as this README to find out about the latest 
changes to MudOS.  In particular, note the changes marked "compat buster" 
since these describe changes to the driver which may cause pre-existing 
mudlibs (such as Lil) to break in some minor fashion (the ChangeLog should 
give enough information to allow affected mudlibs to be fixed).
 
Notes:
 
Send bug reports to mudos-bugs@actlab.rtf.utexas.edu.  Be sure to include 
relevant information along with the problem description including: Type of 
machine (e.g. Sun3, NeXT, RS/6000, etc), operating system (e.g. SunOS 4.1, 
NeXTSTEP 3.0, AIX 3.2, etc), and version of MudOS (e.g. 0.9.14.17).  
Include any other information you feel may help.
 
Send mail to mudos-info-request@actlab.rtf.utexas.edu to be added to the 
MudOS information mailing list (info on new releases etc).
 
Discuss the MudOS driver on the mudos@actlab.rtf.utexas.edu mailing list 
(request to be added at mudos-request@actlab.rtf.utexas.edu).
 
The 'addr_server' file replaces the old hname program.  Unlike hname, 
addr_server must be started up manually (it takes a single argument which 
is the port # the addr_server should listen on -- this port # must also be 
specified in the runtime config file).  If addr_server doesn't work on your 
machine, its okay to run the driver without it (just set your config file 
up to point to someone else's addr_server).
 
If the driver errors out at runtime with a message saying that the 
operation is not supported on the socket, then try using cc instead of gcc 
(assuming you were using gcc).  Alternatively, try uncommenting 
NEED_OLD_CPP in the Makefile and then 'make clean' and 'make'.
 
For more information about LPmuds and MUDs in general try reading
the USENET groups rec.games.mud.{admin,announce,misc,lp,tiny,diku}.

On subdirectories:

amiga/          Contains amiga support files; a crypt package is also
                provided for systems missing DES crypt()
include/        Useful #defines for the mudlib to have access to (used by
                various efuns)
compiler/
lpc_compiler/   These two directories contain the unshared parser/compiler
                parts, used in generating yacc files
packages/       This is where efun packages and user efuns should reside
